Input Query: My mouth is watering writing this review. Omg, these tacos are EVERYTHING and then some,imo. Los Tacos offers no tables to sit at, like more than half of the other spots at the market don't either. The line was composed of about 40 people when I got there, and the wait was probably about 10-15 minutes.... but the wait is extremely worth it. Their steak and pork tacos are fantastic. Their pico de gallo is tangy, but not over the top spicy. Holy crap. These are by far the fastest and tastiest tacos that have ever graced my mouth. Their pork tacos have freaking pineapple in them? I've never had this combo and I'm dying to have some more of them right now. The employees are really friendly and move efficiently fast. The price? about $3 dollars a taco. WHAT? yes. The tacos are made by a Mexican staff? YES! That's probably why they're so damn good. Something to keep in mind though, after you pay and receive your ticket, move quickly to the other side and give that other person your ticket. If you assume that after you pay, your ticket number or order will be called out for you to come get it, you will be waiting there for a longgggggg time.
===========================

Score: 0.3038014330808098
Result: With taco spots popping up all over I have to say that they are doing it right at Big Star, I really enjoyed the food. I loved the fish and pork tacos.

Score: 0.30521271384933324
Result: Best Mexican food I've had in a long time. My mouth is watering thinking about the lobster tacos. Awesome margarita...Tres Viejos. It's spicy (and how a margarita should be!).

Score: 0.3070325316900777
Result: Good food! Fast!Ordered chicken taco and "taco on the walk" Very tasty.Cash only

Score: 0.3103489016226413
Result: Pork belly taco and Fish taco Fabulous!!! Service was fast friendly and efficient. Went during a weekday afternoon no wait seated right away. Loved the atmosphere and food was great. I will be back

Score: 0.3218532333507968
Result: I went here at the insistence of a friend to find out what i assumed: so-so food that was over priced and over hyped.  There was a line but there is a pick up window where you can get your food fast at a take out window.  Tacos are $3 a piece as is the horchada (rice water).  I was hungry so I ordered 3 tacos (2 fish and 1 pork shoulder with pineapple)My order was ready and as its from the pick up window your option is a communal park bench outside.  Holy crap the tacos were the size of dollar pancakes... I didn't know they made tortillas that small... about 2 bites to a taco.  The fish tacos were nothing special.  The pork shoulder with pineapple was good but dry.  The hot sauces (1 red and one green were good).  I wanted guacamole and chips but at $8 I don't think so.  Shouldn't someone at least bring it to my table for a $20 dinner...?The worst part was the horchada which was not smooth and left a bad taste with a sandy consistency which ruined the whole meal.  My friend asked for water... sorry no tap.. you can buy bottled water at $2.  I'm pretty sure its not legal to not offer water.After eating we went into the "bar" area which was quite obviously an old garage/auto body shop with all its ambiance... it looked like they plopped a bar in the middle of it and did nothing else. The place was crowded so perhaps the hipster of bucktown have no real Mexican food... poor them but I won't return.  If you have to try this place get a pork shoulder taco or two and take it home... if you want a meat market you are looking at some sad pickings.....

