Input Query: This was our last meal on our Chicago trip and we chose it after hearing great things about this place from our friend who used to live in the area. My husband and I came for an early dinner and the restaurant was pretty empty and quiet. We shared the following: - Avocado crostini: so tasty!! It's a delicious and light appetizer great for sharing! So fresh and delicious! Honestly, it's very simple and I could probably make this at home, but I had no regrets ordering it. Definitely recommend this one! - Lobster ravioli: I was pretty disappointed by this dish. It was a little on the bland side, and I wished it had more of a lemony citrusy flavor. - Pumpkin ravioli w/ butternut squash: delicious!!! I loved this dish. The flavor is amazing! It's seriously like autumn on a plate. Sweet, savory, and the sage is just perfection! One of the best pasta dishes I've ever had! - Panna cotta: this was definitely not your average panna cotta. It was actually a chocolate flavor which took me by surprise. They nailed the texture though! Overall, the panna cotta was good, but a little too rich for my personal liking. If you like desserts like decadent chocolate pudding, get this. Service was phenomenal! 5 stars for the service alone. The manager and server both took great care of us throughout the night. We felt like honorary guests! I would recommend this place just based on the amazing hospitality and service we received.
===========================

Score: 0.31525381273071296
Result: RPM Italian was a fun night out.  It was difficult to get a table (on a Wednesday night) so we sat in the bar area.  We tried a variety of menu items and found some to be amazing and others to be okay.  Most memorable were the Pumpkin Agnolotti (TO DIE FOR!!!) and the prosciutto wrapped figs.  These should both be menu staples!  We found the lobster in the lobster caprese to be lacking flavor (disappointing for a $16 starter) and Mama DePandi's Buccatini pasta with a meatball was tasty enough but not especially memorable.  Portions were smaller than I expected, but perfect to order a few and share in the middle.We tried two desserts: Bill's chocolate budino (delicious but rich enough that you'll want to balance it out with something tart) and the special of the day which was described as a puff pastry but was simply fried donut squares (meh).  I would have been happy with another order of the Pumpkin Agnolotti for dessert!  Drinks were thoughtfully made and service was top notch.  The Pumpkin Agnolotti was SO GOOD that I'm making it a priority to return to RPM next time I'm in Chicago!

Score: 0.32583818159155936
Result: I am very impressed with Longman & Eagle.  From the outside it looks like nothing special, just a gray box, but the inside was cozy and warm.  The use of wood, pops of color from yellow napkins and blue-gray walls, and dim, candlelit lighting enhanced the coziness.   Service was friendly and made better by the fact that each waiter only waited on 2-3 tables at a time.  Now for the food -- the important part.  Really interesting menu.  As another reviewer mentioned, the menu you get may not be the same as the online menu, which ended up being perfectly fine with me.  The menu today was more winter-esc.  The salad we had consisted of pear, frisee, haricots verts, and some kind of bleu cheese with a red wine reduction.  The salad was very nice, and the flavors melded well.  I'm not a big bleu cheese lover but I'll admit this one was not too bad.The small plate we tried consisted of a porcini ravioli with veal heart and some type of berry (maybe lingonberry?).  This small plate was amazing!   If you go there, and they have it, make sure you order it!  The flavors were bold and savory.  Don't be scared of the heart!  For our entree, we shared a monkfish that had an apple-celery root puree, barley, and a red wine sauce.  The flavor to this was really good too, and the combination of textures made it even better.  For dessert, we tried some crispy chocolate thing, I don't remember what they called it, but it was served with a carmel pudding and an amazing malt flavored gelato.  The chocolate thing consisted of a layer of rich ganache over a chocolate cookie type layer.  The dessert was extremely rich, but if you're a chocolate lover like I am, you'll love it.Overall, you could tell a lot of thought was put into forming these dishes.  The dishes were presented beautifully, and their unique flavors and textures melded amazingly with one another.  Would definitely try again!I would recommend going somewhat early.  I think we arrived around 5:45 and were seated immediately.  A wait line started forming around 6:30 or so.  Don't let the prospect of waiting deter you, the meal with be worth it!

Score: 0.32865805792269315
Result: RPM was my favorite restaurant destination during my trip. I initially wanted to try RPM because I'm a fan of Juliana and Bill's show but the yelp reviews convinced me I had to make the girls go with me. Almost every single dish we tried here was spectacular! The service is top notch and the prices are reasonable. It's 4 star service for those on a budget. I loved it so much that I called every day during my trip to get a reservation again. I made a second visit to RPM before hopping on my plane back to LA. I am a devout fan of RPM! I plan on making a trip out to Chicago just to go eat here again! Overview (+= order, - = pass) :+Lobster Caprese (first time we shared, second time I got my own) -the lobster chunks are so fresh and sweet.+Beef Carpaccio (delicious! I prefer mine with arugula so I asked for some and they accommodated)+Truffled Garlic Bread (very light and perfect amount of garlic, good portion to share amongst the table)+Shredded Brussle Sprount and Avocado Salad - so simple yet so delicious I could eat a whole order by myself. It's almost like a light coleslaw-Prime Meatballs (this is the only thing that didn't dazzle me, very basic meatball)+Mama DiPandi's Bucatini - the most simple pasta dish and it was my favorite. Perfectly cooked pasta with a light yet flavorful pomodoro basil sauce+Spicy King Crab Squid Ink Spaghetti - this had a kick to it and if you're a fan of crab, you'll love it-Shortrib Pansotti (this has a rustic flavor to it and was similar to a shortrib ragu over pasta). -Grilled Giant Prawns (very simple grilled prawns served with lemon on the side) nothing special to me.

Score: 0.3341787161191295
Result: Had a great meal here. The warm bittersweet plantation goat cheese salad was amazing. The crabmeat ravioli with galic, cream, lemon, and herbs was delicious. We ordered a few desserts to share and while the flavor was good, they were all too sweet for me. However, this does not deter me from recommending this place because everything else was excellent. Would love to dine at other John Besh restaurants.

Score: 0.34347773583391833
Result: RPM Italian is great and I would recommend -- however not completely impressed. I will say perhaps we just ordered some of the wrong plates, as they were either nothing special or spectacular.I was most impressed by the decor and environment, very intimate and classy.My boyfriend and I made our meal out of several small dishes and came out feeling stuffed!*Homemade Ricotta (5/5) - delicious and great way to get in a month's worth of carbs! *Pasta Puffs (3/5) - nothing special. Basically cheetoh puffs with light cheese flavor. We spread our leftover ricotta on them to add a bit more flavor.*Gnocchi al forno (2/5) - we were actually really excited about this and ended up not enjoying it very much. The photos of it we saw online looked awesome, and as someone who loves anything baked in cheese, I regret ordering it. Weird consistency and just bland.*Proscuitto Pansotti (5/5) - this quite honestly helped gain this review its fourth star from me. Full of flavor and delicious! Basically proscuitto and cheese stuffed ravioli. There were only four or five pieces, and left me wanting more!Dessert definitely didn't fail  us. We shared the Tartufo (basically a huge Ferrero Rocher) and the Rice Pudding Gelato. WOW! Both were amazing! And served as a great balance, chocolate vs vanilla(ish).As mentioned, I'd definitely recommend to give RPM a try. My boyfriend was far less impressed than I was (except for the dessert), but perhaps the menu had other things to offer that we would've enjoyed more.

