Input Query: Ahhh tapas, the small plates that contain individual tiny bites of joy. Cafe Ba-Ba-Reeba does their versions very well.In a group of 8, celebrating a birthday, many of the tapas were sampled and many drinks were to be had. Four of us split a pitcher of peach sangria, which was very good, each of us got two full glasses and there was a little top off to spare. As far as the food I personally took bites of:Bacon wrapped dates (5/5)Steak skewers (4/5)Spicy Potatotes (4/5)Fried Green Peppers (3/5) andPaella Valenciana (5/5)Braised short ribs w/mashed potatoes (5/5)Dessert - Chocolate Truffle Cake (3/5)You can't go wrong with bacon wrapped dates. The steak skewers and spicy potatoes were more impressive because of the sauce pairings. The fried green peppers were good, just not much to them, not a punch in the bite like I like my tapas. The paella was my favorite paella ever, mostly because paella usually comes with seafood and this one did not. Also it was done well. The braised short ribs I got to myself and every mouthful was very succulent and exactly like I would have wanted and was expecting. The chocolate cake was standard, nothing impressive, but good all the same. Service was around, clearing plates and making sure we got what all of our orders. Very impressive, especially since the concept of tapas induces a higher service standard than restaurants with the normal three plates.I can't wait to take the Mister here to show him how to eat like we do in España.
===========================

Score: 0.36594068034082117
Result: Great tapas and nothing is bad that I have had from short ribs to seared tuna. The deserts are too small and the chocolate cake is just fudge so I would avoid the deserts. My favorite is figs wrapped in bacon because the bacon is always cooked well and the seet figs just melt in your mouth.

Score: 0.3722193249766118
Result: I absolutely loved our experience here. We made reservations earlier in the week for a Friday seating at 6 p.m. Good thing we did because the place was fairly packed and busy the entire time we were there.We came to celebrate my recent promotion and it was the perfect spot - very fun atmosphere and ambiance. It was just my boyfriend and I but this would be great for a group. We got seated right away and ordered the blackberry sangria. We each had about three glasses and I thought it was well worth the price. For the two of us we ordered the following off the menu:-patatas bravas: amazing and flavorful. Not too spicy but stills packs a punch.- goat cheese in marinara sauce: a personal favorite. I love the combination between the two and with some toasted bread you can't go wrong.-dates wrapped in bacon: everyone talks about these and they are not to be missed. The savory sweet aspect is awesome.-beef short rib with potatoes and brussels sprouts: short rib was fork tender and melt in your mouth-scallop dish: broth is great and very fragrant.With both of us checking into Yelp, we each got a dessert tapas for free. We tried the chocolate truffle cake and chocolate crema. Perfect sizes and the chocolate was fairly rich.The bill was around $60, but we left full, satisfied, and in a sangria haze. Only recommendation would be to order 2 tapas at a time. Our 5 came out pretty fast and we were feeling a tiny bit overwhelmed with a table full of food!

Score: 0.37574634786955813
Result: Definitely one of my favorite restaurants in Chicago... nearly 1400 reviews can't be wrong.  Favorites are the spicy potatoes, goat cheese and bacon wrapped dates.  Service is always great as well.  Love this place!

Score: 0.3847267044324742
Result: Cafe Ba-Ba-Reeba is a great place to go for tapas. I love the food and it's a great opportunity to share food with friends and family. I have been here multiple times and can't wait for the next time I go back. Some of my favorite dishes that are MUST HAVES are the Goat Cheese baked in Tomato Sauce, the Spicy Potatoes, the Beef Tenderloin & Blue Cheese and my 2 Favorites the Prime Ribeye and the Bacon Wrapped Dates. All the portions are small so make sure you order enough tapas to fill everyone up.

Score: 1.0
Result: Ahhh tapas, the small plates that contain individual tiny bites of joy. Cafe Ba-Ba-Reeba does their versions very well.In a group of 8, celebrating a birthday, many of the tapas were sampled and many drinks were to be had. Four of us split a pitcher of peach sangria, which was very good, each of us got two full glasses and there was a little top off to spare. As far as the food I personally took bites of:Bacon wrapped dates (5/5)Steak skewers (4/5)Spicy Potatotes (4/5)Fried Green Peppers (3/5) andPaella Valenciana (5/5)Braised short ribs w/mashed potatoes (5/5)Dessert - Chocolate Truffle Cake (3/5)You can't go wrong with bacon wrapped dates. The steak skewers and spicy potatoes were more impressive because of the sauce pairings. The fried green peppers were good, just not much to them, not a punch in the bite like I like my tapas. The paella was my favorite paella ever, mostly because paella usually comes with seafood and this one did not. Also it was done well. The braised short ribs I got to myself and every mouthful was very succulent and exactly like I would have wanted and was expecting. The chocolate cake was standard, nothing impressive, but good all the same. Service was around, clearing plates and making sure we got what all of our orders. Very impressive, especially since the concept of tapas induces a higher service standard than restaurants with the normal three plates.I can't wait to take the Mister here to show him how to eat like we do in España.

