Input Query: My mouth is watering writing this review. Omg, these tacos are EVERYTHING and then some,imo. Los Tacos offers no tables to sit at, like more than half of the other spots at the market don't either. The line was composed of about 40 people when I got there, and the wait was probably about 10-15 minutes.... but the wait is extremely worth it. Their steak and pork tacos are fantastic. Their pico de gallo is tangy, but not over the top spicy. Holy crap. These are by far the fastest and tastiest tacos that have ever graced my mouth. Their pork tacos have freaking pineapple in them? I've never had this combo and I'm dying to have some more of them right now. The employees are really friendly and move efficiently fast. The price? about $3 dollars a taco. WHAT? yes. The tacos are made by a Mexican staff? YES! That's probably why they're so damn good. Something to keep in mind though, after you pay and receive your ticket, move quickly to the other side and give that other person your ticket. If you assume that after you pay, your ticket number or order will be called out for you to come get it, you will be waiting there for a longgggggg time.
===========================

Score: 0.19433376067123756
Result: Avec is one of our favorites, except it can be impossible to get in and they don't take reservations (that's the main reason for 4 stars instead of 5).  We went last night early, at 5pm since we had tickets to a show and got in with no wait.  The food is amazing, there is nothing you can complain about with the food!!  We ordered the Dates, Foccia Bread, Pork Shoulder and the Hanger Steak for 3 people.  It was a lot of food!! We ended up taking some of it home, but we could have easily done with 1 plate less.Pros:- Food is amazing!!- Unique atmosphere- Reasonably pricedCons:- No reservations so you may end up waiting a while (alimentari just opened and they have a nice bar to wait at)- You sit at a table with other parties pretty crammed, so if you get stuck next to a bad crowd it could ruin your dinner

Score: 0.19745178909693734
Result: Well my review isn't about the food, the food is delicious. The price and the wait, holy moly! Good luck finding a free parking space on the weekend, and even after you find one be prepared to stand in a ridiculous line for about an hour. Hungry yet? I bet you are! Now the best part, chicken and waffles $20....Yeah, its good but not good enough to spend $5 on parking, an hour of standing in a line and then paying $20.Its an experience that is fun the first time, but paying that much and going through that much crap to eat is not worth it the 2nd, 3rd, ..... time.

Score: 0.2041692024815178
Result: came here with my mother for lunch on a tuesday around 11:30am. we thought that since it was pretty early, there would probably be not be many people waiting to eat but when we got there it was VERY crowded and for a party of two, we waited for 40min. i feel like the wait is the only downside to this placeparking is very practical. the plaza where sushi gen is has its own parking lot and upon entering, u take a ticket and wait for a spot. since this little plaza consists of many restaurants, people are constantly leaving and arriving so its not difficult to land a parking spot. REMEMBER TO GET YOUR TICKET VALIDATED! ($2 with validation, not bad at all)my mom ordered the lunch special chicken teriyaki & sashimi combo ($14) and i had the lunch special sashimi ($15), both were YUUUMMMYY (: !! $15 for the amount of sashimi i got was DEFFFFIIINITELY worth it AND it lived up to all the hype. and if u want more rice, they offer free refills which is a plus.

Score: 0.22729609962346306
Result: I know that this place is supposed to be the greatest thing since sliced bread in Chicago; but you know what?  Its not!  Went here 1/16/2013 for a group/birthday party and really everything was just ehhh, and I have a couple of arrgghh you kidding me.  So I will start from the beginning, well pre-beginning because the idea of having a ticket system for a day, time and meal is just bull ****.  Here is why, say you want to go here; make reservation pay 500+ for tickets, now let say you get sick well to bad, that is the only time you can use ticket should have thought about that 3 months ago, oh yea you can try and sell it on CL or some other site but seriously good luck with that. No refunds you already payed for it so, I guess they really do not care is Grant really that hard up for money that he has to sucker customers by keeping tickets and changing reservation dates?  Any ways back to the evening The tree lined hallway was cool, nifty and a well executed idea; along with the super sweet hot chocolate when they took my coat.  I was seated along with the rest of the party, and offered the drink course with dinner which me and my date for evening declined and ordered a bottle of wine.  Most of the food that came out was okay at best the first course of the Sea Urchin, Toro and the Beef with Vegtable consomme was best dishes of the night.  Rest of dishes were okay not great and clearly forgettable a month or so later.  Now for the dish that has 50 different options to create your own was a great idea but if I ask you what all fifty options are; I expect you to answer me and not just say well it will be on the menu at the end.  Now this is about 3/4 of the way through the meal and I have been tasting my friends drinks that have been with the wine flight pairing and everything has been ungodly sweet, and I am not talking like a little sweet but sugar rush sweet.  So now its down to the grand finale and they do the chocolate explosion with cotton candy, caramel and cookies.  I take a couple bites and really this besides the little mess it made in some Jackson Pollack tribute of a look is just crap.  Hands down I have gotten super market chocolate that has been better.  Here is my advice, go some where else where the front of the house still takes reservations you do not have to buy stupid tickets that people low ball on CL, go to where it is not about name but a true adventure in finding excellent food.  I would say this place deserves the one Mitchlien star but that is it.

Score: 0.22829051157893454
Result: I can't believe I haven't reviewed this place earlier! Fell in love with this place on my first visit and still love it. It started a few months ago...I walked in on a Friday night and my friend said that we'd have to wait. I was super hungry so I didn't mind and I'm glad I did instead of head to another restaurant on the block. The tacos are delicious. My favorite are the chicken tacos. They have a spicy kick and the meat is tender. The pork shoulder is my least favorite. Not sure if it's the pineapple I don't like or the meat. On to the plantains....I could eat these forever. They are perfectly grilled and the cheese, sauce, green onions...basically everything they put on top of the plantains make for a perfect combo. Also tried the pickled veggies on the side which I could have gone without. We also tried the bacon wrapped hot dog which was good but be warned...it's really messy! The drinks are delish as well and I love my tequila! If you go on a weekend night be prepared to wait. If you happen to find a spot at the bar then stay there! All the servers and bartenders are really friendly and provide great fast service so it doesn't really matter where you sit (just as long as you get a seat!). Last tip...CASH only.

