Input Query: This was our last meal on our Chicago trip and we chose it after hearing great things about this place from our friend who used to live in the area. My husband and I came for an early dinner and the restaurant was pretty empty and quiet. We shared the following: - Avocado crostini: so tasty!! It's a delicious and light appetizer great for sharing! So fresh and delicious! Honestly, it's very simple and I could probably make this at home, but I had no regrets ordering it. Definitely recommend this one! - Lobster ravioli: I was pretty disappointed by this dish. It was a little on the bland side, and I wished it had more of a lemony citrusy flavor. - Pumpkin ravioli w/ butternut squash: delicious!!! I loved this dish. The flavor is amazing! It's seriously like autumn on a plate. Sweet, savory, and the sage is just perfection! One of the best pasta dishes I've ever had! - Panna cotta: this was definitely not your average panna cotta. It was actually a chocolate flavor which took me by surprise. They nailed the texture though! Overall, the panna cotta was good, but a little too rich for my personal liking. If you like desserts like decadent chocolate pudding, get this. Service was phenomenal! 5 stars for the service alone. The manager and server both took great care of us throughout the night. We felt like honorary guests! I would recommend this place just based on the amazing hospitality and service we received.
===========================

Score: 0.26852547031914353
Result: Amazing food, amazing service, great management. This place has never disappointed.

Score: 0.27493112701797323
Result: Had a really sweet and romantic meal outside here on my last night in Chicago this past Sunday. Ordered the margherita pizza which was really tasty and thin crust. No frills. Also had the veal meatballs and the ravioli. I loved both except the ravioli was a bit salty. My pomegranate martini was great and the babe ordered red wine which came with a funny regular cup just like in Italy. I think it's good for a breezy date night. Our server was a helpful and pretty girl whose name I didn't catch. Recommend.

Score: 0.27493112701797323
Result: Had a really sweet and romantic meal outside here on my last night in Chicago this past Sunday. Ordered the margherita pizza which was really tasty and thin crust. No frills. Also had the veal meatballs and the ravioli. I loved both except the ravioli was a bit salty. My pomegranate martini was great and the babe ordered red wine which came with a funny regular cup just like in Italy. I think it's good for a breezy date night. Our server was a helpful and pretty girl whose name I didn't catch. Recommend.

Score: 0.29540630986755934
Result: Went here with an old friend I hadn't seen in over five years, and our waiter Ryan was immediately attentive to the fact that we were here to catch up and enjoy a long friendly meal and conversation.  He paced the plates perfectly, and even expressed his concern that the pumpkin ravioli came too soon as we hadn't quite cleared the grape apple salad.  We didn't send a single plate back with a spot of food or sauce on it... and even licked the bowl of the pumpkin ravioli clean, it was like an f'n dessert mid-meal!!!  Back to the beginning, we started with the meatballs over polenta... the polenta was whipped super light and it's creaminess complimented the super meaty meatballs perfectly. From there things only got better.  We split the grape and apple salad and moved onto the pumpkin ravioli... (I am going back later this week just to have this dish once again!)  I cannot even begin to describe it, other than what I wrote above.  Finally we finished with the Steak and Eggs... The "sunny side up" or soft cooked egg was perfectly cooked inside the perfectly cooked, and I assume home-made ravioli wrapper... (or whatever you call that deliciously al-dente wheat based skin...)Come dessert, WTF, I cannot remember dessert... I remember it was really really good, but we were food comatose by this point and in sheer bliss... I checked out the menu online... We shared the warm gruyere donuts... again, f'n amazing!  Ryan our awesome waiter brought us an aperitif gratis and shared a few (more) laughs with us while we enjoyed the drinks before serving us with the check, which was beyond reasonable for such an amazing experience in life & food!   Cheers L&E we'll see you soon, if not sooner!

Score: 0.3113893102096704
Result: A few years ago, when I heard that Bill and Giuliana Rancic were opening up a LEYE Italian-themed restaurant, I'll admit, my eyes rolled a bit.  The star power of the couple definitely brought a buzz, and you add in the ability of the Melman family to turn a restaurant into a "see and be seen" place, but for some of their previous works (ala Hub 51 and Paris Club), the food seemed to take a backseat to the ambience and atmosphere.  So, I went into RPM the first time around pretty skeptical.  My first visit completely changed that - the food is well done, the pastas, fresh and handmade, offer a good choice of solidly cooked traditional options and dressed up more unique dishes.  I haven't tried some of the bigger secondi options yet, but mean to at some point in the future.  So about a month ago (hence the title "late thoughts", I checked out Wild Cub at the House of Blues.  Thankfully, seeing a show at the HOB leaves you with a plethora of nearby after-show eats, especially after an all-ages show.  So we headed over to RPM again, looking forward to some excellent fresh-made pasta.Fritto MistoWe started with the fritto misto, which ended up being the low point of the meal.  The shellfish aspects were fresh, but just a bit on the greasy side.  A bit disappointing, but thankfully the meal just got better after that.  Beef CarpaccioIt's not often that I'm in the mood for something like steak tartar or beef carpaccio, but for some reason it sounded enticing.  The beef was perfectly sliced, and the addition of the mushrooms added a nice textural contrast and a balance of flavor that was enhanced even more by the shaved pecorino cheese.  Scattered pieces of arugula gave a nice bite, and overall the extra ingredients didn't detract from the natural umami of the beef.  Lobster RavioliBucatiniSo two apps and two pastas was the perfect amount of food for the two of us.  I went with the lobster ravioli, cooked in a spinach-based green shell.  The ravioli was reasonably filled to get in a decent chunk of lobster, mostly claw meat,  The sauce, a light red sauce just adds enough flavor to the ravioli to complement the ravioli.  My fiancee's dish, "Mama DePandi's" Bucatini has become her go-to dish at RPM, and for good reason.  It's a simple dish - some fresh-made bucatini (a thick, tubular pasta with just the narrow hollow center) tossed with a freshly made pomodoro sauce.  The sweetness of the tomatoes really comes out in the sauce, and it's perfectly dressed.  Hints of basil and garlic round out the dish nicely.  So while you may be drawn towards some of the more unique sounding dishes on the menu (the squid ink pasta, the english pea risotto), the more traditional pastas have been the best here, IMO (I've also had the bolognese, and it was great!)Happiness comes in small packages, as long as there's hazelnut gelato inside, so save room for dessert.  And ask for the "chocolate ball".  The Tartufo is essentially a solid chocolate core, surrounded by gently flavored hazelnut gelato and held together by a crisp, nutty chocolate shell.  It is the perfect mix of flavors, textures, and temperatures in a dessert.  It's a good size for a number of people to share.  It is on my list of the best desserts (if not the best) dessert I've had in the city (that you can get consistently).   Surprisingly, RPM has turned into less of a scene restaurant than it's neighbors across the street, but still has a chic vibe.  But it's the food that stands out and is the highlight of this spot.  I give it a 4 stars, docked only bc it's just a tad on the pricier side, but if you order the right things, it's well worth it.Pics and more up at:eatinginchicago2014.word…

