COMPARING TO : This was our last meal on our Chicago trip and we chose it after hearing great things about this place from our friend who used to live in the area. My husband and I came for an early dinner and the restaurant was pretty empty and quiet. We shared the following: - Avocado crostini: so tasty!! It's a delicious and light appetizer great for sharing! So fresh and delicious! Honestly, it's very simple and I could probably make this at home, but I had no regrets ordering it. Definitely recommend this one! - Lobster ravioli: I was pretty disappointed by this dish. It was a little on the bland side, and I wished it had more of a lemony citrusy flavor. - Pumpkin ravioli w/ butternut squash: delicious!!! I loved this dish. The flavor is amazing! It's seriously like autumn on a plate. Sweet, savory, and the sage is just perfection! One of the best pasta dishes I've ever had! - Panna cotta: this was definitely not your average panna cotta. It was actually a chocolate flavor which took me by surprise. They nailed the texture though! Overall, the panna cotta was good, but a little too rich for my personal liking. If you like desserts like decadent chocolate pudding, get this. Service was phenomenal! 5 stars for the service alone. The manager and server both took great care of us throughout the night. We felt like honorary guests! I would recommend this place just based on the amazing hospitality and service we received.

A must-visit if you are in Seattle for any duration of time. I cannot have enough of their  pizzas - the crust is unbelievably light and airy, and the toppings are just perfect. Kudos to them for having an equal balance of veggie & meat options. Try their Panna Cotta, and see if that does not keep you coming back for more.

SCORE OF ABOVE: 0.3000856915721334

Food is pretty good here. We had several small plates; most notably recommend the squid. Had also had the roasted chicken and pork shoulder, both were also very good. The panna cotta was simply delicious. Still not crazy about the communal seating like the owner's other restaurant, the publican.

SCORE OF ABOVE: 0.3006593167010708

ok, i've now been to Avec a few times & feel very confident in giving them a very well deserved 5 stars.for the service.it was impeccable. our waiter on Saturday was Marcus. he did a fantastic job overall, was also very friendly & knowledgeable and gave the experience a very personal feel like if you were old friends (& yet still professional),timing of everything was great, you'd not guess it was a busy saturday night.and for the food..first off we had the chorizo stuffed, bacon wrapped dates & a marinated kale salad with turnips. Both were fantastic but the dates will always be the first thing i order. as soon as i sit down, every time i go here. they are ridiculous.the dates are sitting in a tomato sauce that's fantastic as well, we were spreading it not only on the fresh bread that comes with the dates but on the foccachia we got later as well, very good. i feel sorry for the cooks who prep the dates, as i imagine they probably have to make enough for at least one dish for every table that sits down, every single night.  (thank you chefs, i promise you it is appreciated.)next up we had foccachia stuffed with tellagio, ricotta, truffle oil & herbs.this too was amazing. finally with our coffees we had some nice tempered chocolate crisps with something in the middle that they described as like crepes. we also had a) white chocolate panna cotta with figs & apricot i think? i felt the panna cotta had a very good texture & flavor but may have been a touch sweet for my taste, i will say, however, that if i'd ordered another coffee to accompany the panna cotta i would have enjoyed it a lot more with the contrasting flavors.all in all, even though we weren't hungry enough to eat a ton of food, this was easily one of the best dinners i've had in a long time. I can't wait to go back.

SCORE OF ABOVE: 0.342130834046929

