COMPARING TO : I was sitting at home watching movies with a friend when we were both hit by a craving for Chinese food. We quickly decided to order some delivery and, based on a variety of reasons (great online reviews, relatively close, not a huge minimum needed), decided to give Shanghai Inn a shot. Ordering was easy. Delivery was extremely quick, and the delivery guy was friendly and super nice. First, our appetizers. The crab rangoon were, in a word, awesome. They arrived piping hot and super crispy with a creamy and flavorful filling. The egg drop soup was also very good - not too salty, lots of egg, generally delicious. Unfortunately, our main courses just weren't good. My moo shu pork was...well...it was bad. The pancakes were the right thinness and consistency, but the sauce was super thick and gloopy and basically tasted like salt. The other problem was the lack of pork. My moo shu pork was very skimpy on the meat and was mostly vegetables, primarily cabbage. What little meat there was was incredibly chewy. It looks like my search for good moo shu will continue. My friend's chicken lo mein had a similar problem. Lots of noodles, mushrooms, peapods, a few water chestnuts, but almost no chicken. In fact, she found only two pieces of chicken in the entire container. She also complained about how salty it was, and she said that it was a bit too greasy.

Interesting flavors, delivery was very quick. 3.5

SCORE OF ABOVE: 0.2486666214472175

I took a group of 12 friends there based on the recommendation of a friend.... It was some of the blandest Thai food I have ever had. The Panag Nua was tough and lacking in flavor. It was a true Panag curry but it just seemed watered down. The meat had been just sliced and tossed in. Normally good Thai places have nice chunks of beef that they let stew in it all day so the sauce permeates it and the meat just falls apart. The Yum Yai salad had almost no sauce and what litte sauce it did have lacked in any flavor.The Tom Ka Guy soup was watery and heavily lacking in taste. The chicken in it was dry and huge chunks that were just not right for a soup. It also lacked a decent amount of mushrooms.The Kow Pat Moo was totally flavorless for a Thai fried rice. It was more like over priced panda express Chinese fast food rice.  This is a huge failure. I mean how hard is it to toss nam plaud and sugar into some rice? The Phad Thai was soggy and had more the consistency of spagetti with marinara then a thai fried noodle dish. The saving grace was the moo sautee. It was nice and small like you would get on the streets of bangkok. It did taste good but then again that's the staple of Thai places and you would have to go out of your way to screw this one up.All this being said my friends liked it BUT none of them have ever tried Thai food before much less GOOD Thai food. I think this must be the case for a lot of the positive reviews here. An other negative reviewer pointed out that there simply no Thai people in there this does tend to be a good indicator as to if a Thai place is good.

SCORE OF ABOVE: 0.2493054844121245

no delivery????????????????????????????please!!!!!

SCORE OF ABOVE: 0.25522894822512215

