COMPARING TO : Ahhh tapas, the small plates that contain individual tiny bites of joy. Cafe Ba-Ba-Reeba does their versions very well.In a group of 8, celebrating a birthday, many of the tapas were sampled and many drinks were to be had. Four of us split a pitcher of peach sangria, which was very good, each of us got two full glasses and there was a little top off to spare. As far as the food I personally took bites of:Bacon wrapped dates (5/5)Steak skewers (4/5)Spicy Potatotes (4/5)Fried Green Peppers (3/5) andPaella Valenciana (5/5)Braised short ribs w/mashed potatoes (5/5)Dessert - Chocolate Truffle Cake (3/5)You can't go wrong with bacon wrapped dates. The steak skewers and spicy potatoes were more impressive because of the sauce pairings. The fried green peppers were good, just not much to them, not a punch in the bite like I like my tapas. The paella was my favorite paella ever, mostly because paella usually comes with seafood and this one did not. Also it was done well. The braised short ribs I got to myself and every mouthful was very succulent and exactly like I would have wanted and was expecting. The chocolate cake was standard, nothing impressive, but good all the same. Service was around, clearing plates and making sure we got what all of our orders. Very impressive, especially since the concept of tapas induces a higher service standard than restaurants with the normal three plates.I can't wait to take the Mister here to show him how to eat like we do in España.

Great Tapas.  The Sangria was very nice.  Service was good.  I heartily recommend the Spicy Potatoes, they were my favorite.  also had the mushroom empanadas, cherizo and chicken skewers, and chicken Paella which was also very good.  Also had one of the specials - beef that was tasty.  So 4 Tapas and one Paella plus the 1/2 pictcher of sangria for $71.00

SCORE OF ABOVE: 0.3475380284222531

First off, I am giving 4 stars because I think Cafe BaBaReeba, though delicious, was a bit too commercialized - very trendy, items on menu were listed as English description before Spanish name, too many fancy Sangrias. I also want to say that I am a big fan of Cafe Iberico (which I also gave 4 stars). Having been to both places now, my boyfriend and I said last night that the tapas at BaBa were better, but like the Paella and Sangria at Iberico more. However, I looked at the Iberico menu before writing this review and noticed they have many of the same items (which I haven't had yet) we ordered at BaBa last night. SO I will be going back to Iberico and ordering them so I can decide which place I like better. Now for my review:I have heard many good things about Cafe BaBaReeba, but just went for the first time last night. I was there for my friend's birthday with about 7 other people. We had a reservation, so were seated right away, It wasn't very busy (but I assume that's because it was a Monday evening). A few of the girls with us had been there many times before and already knew what to order, so the rest of us took a quick look at the menu and nothing else seemed to jump out at us so we just went with what ever they got. We started with two pitchers of the WHITE PEACH SANGRIA. It was okay, but I personally would have ordered the Black Raspberry. We started off with 2 SPICY POTATOES W/ TOMATO ALIOLI, 1 GOAT CHEESE BAKED IN TOMATO SAUCE, ENDIVE SALAD, and FRIED CALAMARI. The spicy potatoes were delicious! I had never had goat cheese before, (and it tasted a bit strange at first) but it was very good. I did not try the endive salad or calamari, however, a few people commented the calamari was a bit more chewy than usual and my boyfriend said the salad was good. My boyfriend and I also ordered the PAELLA VALENCIANA for 2 (since no one else wanted it). They split it into two plates for us...I think it could have served 4, but my boyfriend ate his entire portion...I did not. We also agreed that we liked the Paella at Cafe Iberico better.Next we ordered 2 BEEF TENDERLOIN & BLUE CHEESE, 2 BEEF SKEWER W/ HORSERADISH AND RED ONIONS, 2 BRAISED SHORT RIB W/ MASHED POTATOES, and OCTOPUS. The beef tenderloin was fantastic...very juicy and medium rare (just how I like my beef). I did not particularly care for the beef skewer, it tasted a bit charred and was not very juicy. The braised short rib was so tender and yummy...and the mashed potatoes weren't bad either. I didn't try the octopus (not a big seafood person).They brought my friend a serving of the chocolate cake (which was small, because it's a tapa!) for her birthday and we sang to her. We all had a bite and it was pretty good. We definitely had enough food for the 8 of us and I didn't feel too full. The bill ended up being only $30/person since we only split it 7 ways (not too shabby).I would recommend at least going one time and I would have no objections to going again.

SCORE OF ABOVE: 0.36243861282278356

Ahhh tapas, the small plates that contain individual tiny bites of joy. Cafe Ba-Ba-Reeba does their versions very well.In a group of 8, celebrating a birthday, many of the tapas were sampled and many drinks were to be had. Four of us split a pitcher of peach sangria, which was very good, each of us got two full glasses and there was a little top off to spare. As far as the food I personally took bites of:Bacon wrapped dates (5/5)Steak skewers (4/5)Spicy Potatotes (4/5)Fried Green Peppers (3/5) andPaella Valenciana (5/5)Braised short ribs w/mashed potatoes (5/5)Dessert - Chocolate Truffle Cake (3/5)You can't go wrong with bacon wrapped dates. The steak skewers and spicy potatoes were more impressive because of the sauce pairings. The fried green peppers were good, just not much to them, not a punch in the bite like I like my tapas. The paella was my favorite paella ever, mostly because paella usually comes with seafood and this one did not. Also it was done well. The braised short ribs I got to myself and every mouthful was very succulent and exactly like I would have wanted and was expecting. The chocolate cake was standard, nothing impressive, but good all the same. Service was around, clearing plates and making sure we got what all of our orders. Very impressive, especially since the concept of tapas induces a higher service standard than restaurants with the normal three plates.I can't wait to take the Mister here to show him how to eat like we do in España.

SCORE OF ABOVE: 1.0

