COMPARING TO : This was our last meal on our Chicago trip and we chose it after hearing great things about this place from our friend who used to live in the area. My husband and I came for an early dinner and the restaurant was pretty empty and quiet. We shared the following: - Avocado crostini: so tasty!! It's a delicious and light appetizer great for sharing! So fresh and delicious! Honestly, it's very simple and I could probably make this at home, but I had no regrets ordering it. Definitely recommend this one! - Lobster ravioli: I was pretty disappointed by this dish. It was a little on the bland side, and I wished it had more of a lemony citrusy flavor. - Pumpkin ravioli w/ butternut squash: delicious!!! I loved this dish. The flavor is amazing! It's seriously like autumn on a plate. Sweet, savory, and the sage is just perfection! One of the best pasta dishes I've ever had! - Panna cotta: this was definitely not your average panna cotta. It was actually a chocolate flavor which took me by surprise. They nailed the texture though! Overall, the panna cotta was good, but a little too rich for my personal liking. If you like desserts like decadent chocolate pudding, get this. Service was phenomenal! 5 stars for the service alone. The manager and server both took great care of us throughout the night. We felt like honorary guests! I would recommend this place just based on the amazing hospitality and service we received.

I've been waiting for some time to finally make the trek over to L&E and yesterday was finally the day.  I had been hoping that by going not super late (7pm) on a Tuesday that we'd be able to avoid a super long wait.  Wrong.  Wah-wah.  It was about a 1.5 hour wait, though a wait that was well worth it.  We hunkered down for the long wait with some libations and bar snacks.  I had the Harvest sidecar, which I thought was delicious and went down like water.  My dining companions all started with the Cabin Swill, which was also delicious (we like to share).  After downing my sidecar, I decided to embrace Thirsty Tuesday (not the same ring as a Thirsty Thursday) and get another.  We still had a good 45 minutes to wait afterall.  The second drink I had was a surprise from the bartender.  I can't remember what it was called but it was something with gin and looked greenish, even though the bartender swore it was purple.  Either way, a surprising success for someone who isn't the biggest fan of gin.  The bar noshes - pretzel with Welsh rarebit and olives, were a solid beginning to the night.  The olives were surprisingly unsalty (in a good way) and the Welsh rarebit surprisingly contained no rabbit (bad joke).  I love a good pretzel with cheese sauce and this was a substantial improvement over the normal ballpark fare.  Once we were seated, we started with three appetizers: the Ipswich clam belly sandwich, the pumpkin angolotti, and the meatballs.  While I generally don't care for savory things involving squash/pumpkin, the agnolotti were actually quite tasty.  I didn't get much of the foie gras that was supposed to be shaved on top but overall quite good.  The meatballs and the clam belly sandwich were both awesome.  The meatballs were tiny but packed a huge punch of flavor and the polenta/sauce/fonduta/pesto combo was a perfect compliment.  I love that places around here are starting to put Ipswich clam bellies on the menu more and these were worth it.  The celery root remoulade was delicious.  I had been eying the wild boar sloppy joe during my standard pre-meal online menu review and had a hard time looking at any other entree.  I was not sorry I ordered it - the portion was huge, especially compared to the rest of the entree portions.  The beef fat fries were awesome and perfectly crispy.   The sloppy joe was a way better version than what my mom used to make.  It wasn't too sweet, which can be a problem with sloppy joes (for me anyway) and I thought the sage and jalapeno really elevated the dish to a new level.  I sampled my friends' pork belly, which was awesome.  I wanted to order the dish myself but based on my aforementioned dislike of savory squash dishes (this came with butternut squash risotto), I had to turn it down.  I didn't really taste the accoutrements that came with the pork belly, but the belly itself was ridiculously good.  We shared two desserts: the chocolate pave and the cornbread bread pudding.  While both were good (especially the caramel pudding on the pave), they weren't quite as good as the savory dishes, so next time, I think I'll order one more small plate and forgo dessert.

SCORE OF ABOVE: 0.21384703697344518

I am very impressed with Longman & Eagle.  From the outside it looks like nothing special, just a gray box, but the inside was cozy and warm.  The use of wood, pops of color from yellow napkins and blue-gray walls, and dim, candlelit lighting enhanced the coziness.   Service was friendly and made better by the fact that each waiter only waited on 2-3 tables at a time.  Now for the food -- the important part.  Really interesting menu.  As another reviewer mentioned, the menu you get may not be the same as the online menu, which ended up being perfectly fine with me.  The menu today was more winter-esc.  The salad we had consisted of pear, frisee, haricots verts, and some kind of bleu cheese with a red wine reduction.  The salad was very nice, and the flavors melded well.  I'm not a big bleu cheese lover but I'll admit this one was not too bad.The small plate we tried consisted of a porcini ravioli with veal heart and some type of berry (maybe lingonberry?).  This small plate was amazing!   If you go there, and they have it, make sure you order it!  The flavors were bold and savory.  Don't be scared of the heart!  For our entree, we shared a monkfish that had an apple-celery root puree, barley, and a red wine sauce.  The flavor to this was really good too, and the combination of textures made it even better.  For dessert, we tried some crispy chocolate thing, I don't remember what they called it, but it was served with a carmel pudding and an amazing malt flavored gelato.  The chocolate thing consisted of a layer of rich ganache over a chocolate cookie type layer.  The dessert was extremely rich, but if you're a chocolate lover like I am, you'll love it.Overall, you could tell a lot of thought was put into forming these dishes.  The dishes were presented beautifully, and their unique flavors and textures melded amazingly with one another.  Would definitely try again!I would recommend going somewhat early.  I think we arrived around 5:45 and were seated immediately.  A wait line started forming around 6:30 or so.  Don't let the prospect of waiting deter you, the meal with be worth it!

SCORE OF ABOVE: 0.22428867964160173

Oh, yum. I had a wonderful meal here last week. My boyfriend and I arrived at old-people time so we didn't have to wait for a seat, which was delightful. We started off with the pickles and marbled rye appetizer, which was a perfect little nibble. We also shared the pumpkin ravioli with browned butter, walnuts and huckleberries. This was exactly as tasty as it sounds and I wanted it to be my entree. However, because I have the appetite of three grown men, I also ordered the butternut squash risotto entree, which could have been a hair warmer but was rich and creamy deliciousness. The boyfriend was craving a burger and fries and was not disappointed.Finally, not satisfied with the amount of harm already perpetrated upon my body, I decided that we needed to share the crazy cheese doughnut dessert. It's just ridiculous and heavenly and wrong but very, very right. If you're into the sweet-savory thing, don't skip it.

SCORE OF ABOVE: 0.23354101651902734

