Positive	By unanimous vote, the Committee ratified the Open Market Desk's domestic transactions over the intermeeting period.
Neutral		There were no intervention operations in foreign currencies for the System's account over the intermeeting period.
Positive	By unanimous vote, the Committee agreed to extend the reciprocal currency (swap) arrangements with the Bank of Canada and the Banco de México for an additional year beginning in mid-December 2013; these arrangements are associated with the Federal Reserve's participation in the North American Framework Agreement of 1994.
Neutral	The arrangement with the Bank of Canada allows for cumulative drawings of up to $2 billion equivalent, and the arrangement with the Banco de México allows for cumulative drawings of up to $3 billion equivalent.
Neutral	The vote to renew the System's participation in these swap arrangements was taken at this meeting because a provision in the Framework Agreement requires each party to provide six months' prior notice of an intention to terminate its participation.
Neutral	Staff Review of the Economic Situation
Neutral	The information reviewed at the April 30-May 1 meeting indicated that economic activity expanded at a moderate pace in the first quarter.
Negative	In March, the unemployment rate edged down further, although it continued to be elevated, and employment growth slowed.
Positive	Consumer price inflation was relatively low, while measures of longer-run inflation expectations remained stable.
Negative	After faster gains in January and February, private nonfarm employment increased at a subdued rate in March, and government employment declined slightly.
Positive	The unemployment rate was 7.6 percent in March, a little below its average in the fourth quarter of last year.
Negative	The labor force participation rate also edged down to below its fourth-quarter average.
Positive	The rate of long-duration unemployment and the share of workers employed part time for economic reasons declined somewhat in March, but these measures remained well above their pre-recession levels.
Neutral	Indicators of near-term labor market conditions were consistent with projections of moderate increases in employment in the coming months: Measures of job openings generally moved up, but the rate of gross private-sector hiring and indicators of firms' hiring plans were subdued, on balance, and initial claims for unemployment insurance trended up a little over the intermeeting period.
Positive	Manufacturing production decreased slightly in March but expanded at a brisk rate in the first quarter as a whole, supported in part by a recovery in output following Hurricane Sandy, and the rate of manufacturing capacity utilization in March was somewhat higher than in the fourth quarter.
Negative	The production of motor vehicles and parts rose solidly in March, but factory output outside of the motor vehicle sector declined.
Negative	Automakers' schedules indicated that the pace of motor vehicle assemblies in the coming months would be a bit below that in March.
Positive	Broad indicators of manufacturing production, such as the diffusion indexes of new orders from the national and regional manufacturing surveys, were at levels that pointed to small increases in factory output in the near term.
Positive	Real personal consumption expenditures (PCE) expanded at a solid pace in March and in the first quarter as a whole.
Positive	Some factors that tend to influence household spending were generally positive in recent months.
Positive	For example, real disposable income increased in February and March, supported in part by recent declines in retail gasoline prices that raised household purchasing power and offset to some extent the effects of this year's higher payroll and income taxes.
Positive	In addition, household net worth likely rose in recent months as a result of higher equity values and home prices.
Negative	In contrast, consumer sentiment in the Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan Surveys of Consumers was roughly flat, on balance, in March and April and remained relatively downbeat.
Positive	Conditions in the housing sector continued to improve, as real expenditures for residential investment expanded briskly in the first quarter, although from a low level.
Positive	Total combined starts of new single-family homes and multifamily units increased in March to a level well above that at the beginning of the year.
Negative	Home prices continued to rise through February, and sales of new homes rose in March, but sales of existing homes decreased a little.
Negative	Growth in real business expenditures on equipment and software slowed in the first quarter.
Positive	Nominal shipments of nondefense capital goods excluding aircraft continued to rise gradually in February and March, but new orders were slightly below the level of shipments, pointing to modest gains in shipments in the near term.
Negative	Other forward-looking indicators, such as surveys of business conditions and capital spending plans, also suggested that outlays for business equipment would rise at a subdued pace in the coming months.
Negative	Real business spending for nonresidential construction declined a little in the first quarter.
Positive	Real inventory investment increased in the first quarter, and business inventories in most industries appeared to be broadly aligned with sales in recent months.
Negative	Real federal government purchases declined markedly in the first quarter, led by a significant decrease in defense spending, which may have partially reflected the anticipated effects of the federal spending sequestration.
Negative	Real state and local government purchases also decreased somewhat in the first quarter, as state and local construction expenditures continued to decline.
Negative	The advance release of first-quarter data for the national income and product accounts showed that real net exports of goods and services also subtracted moderately from real gross domestic product (GDP) growth, as real imports outpaced real exports.
Negative	Overall consumer prices, as measured by the price index for PCE, edged down in March and rose just 1 percent from a year earlier.
Positive	Consumer energy prices declined in March, and retail gasoline prices fell further in the first few weeks of April.
Negative	Consumer food prices only edged up in March.
Neutral	Consumer prices excluding food and energy were flat in March, and their increase from 12 months earlier was similar to that for total consumer prices.
Neutral	Near-term inflation expectations from the Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan Surveys of Consumers were slightly lower in April, and longer-term inflation expectations in the survey were little changed and remained within the narrow range that they have occupied for several years.
Negative	Measures of labor compensation indicated that gains in nominal wages remained subdued.
Negative	Increases in the employment cost index were modest over the year ending in the first quarter.
Negative	Average hourly earnings for all employees were unchanged in March, and hourly earnings gains in the first quarter as a whole were muted.
Negative	Economic growth in foreign economies overall in the first quarter of 2013 showed only a small improvement from that registered in the second half of 2012.
Positive	Real GDP growth picked up in the United Kingdom, and recent indicators suggested that the pace of contraction moderated in the euro area.
Negative	In contrast, economic growth in China slowed abruptly after surging late last year.
Negative	Foreign inflation appeared to increase a little in the first quarter, partly as a result of higher food prices in several emerging market economies, but remained quite moderate.
Neutral	Staff Review of the Financial Situation
Positive	Financial conditions improved a little, on balance, over the intermeeting period.
Negative	Yields of longer-term Treasury securities and foreign benchmark sovereign bonds declined appreciably, reflecting the somewhat negative tone of U.S. and foreign economic data releases as well as policy actions by the Bank of Japan that were more accommodative than the markets had expected.
Positive	Equity prices rose modestly, on net, supported in part by solid quarterly earnings reports.
Neutral	The expected path of the federal funds rate implied by market quotes shifted down moderately over the intermeeting period.
Neutral	However, the Desk's survey of primary dealers, conducted prior to the April 30-May 1 meeting, indicated that the dealers continued to view the third quarter of 2015 as the most likely time for the initial increase in the target federal funds rate.
Neutral	The median dealer anticipated that the FOMC would maintain its current pace of asset purchases through December 2013 and saw the second quarter of 2014 as the most probable time for the end of asset purchases, implying a slight upward revision to the projected total size of the Federal Reserve's asset purchase program.
Negative	Very negative	Over the intermeeting period, near-term measures of inflation compensation derived from yields on nominal and inflation-protected Treasury securities moved lower amid somewhat disappointing economic data and declines in energy and other commodity prices; forward measures of inflation compensation changed little at longer horizons.
Negative	Yields on agency mortgage-backed securities (MBS) decreased about in line with those on nominal Treasury securities of comparable duration.
Negative	Very negative	Conditions in domestic dollar funding markets were generally little changed, and offshore dollar funding markets reacted only modestly to the elevated uncertainty surrounding the negotiations, early in the intermeeting period, to resolve the banking crisis in Cyprus.
Negative	Some indicators of the condition of domestic financial institutions weakened slightly.
Negative	Very negative	Share prices for the largest domestic banking organizations declined somewhat, on balance, and bank credit default swap spreads edged a bit higher, on average, across the larger firms in the sector.
Positive	Broad equity price indexes increased, on net, over the intermeeting period, likely reflecting solid quarterly earnings reports, stable medium-term earnings expectations, and lower interest rates.
Neutral	Option-implied volatility for the S&P 500 index over the near term remained in a range that was low by historical standards.
Negative	Yields on corporate bonds fell roughly in line with those on Treasury securities of comparable maturity, generally leaving their spreads little changed.
Neutral	The rate of corporate bond issuance by nonfinancial firms remained robust in March and April.
Neutral	Consistent with recent trends, some companies reportedly retired a notable portion of their outstanding commercial paper and issued longer-term bonds in comparable amounts.
Neutral	Syndicated leveraged loans were issued at a record pace in the first quarter, supported by strong demand for this type of asset, particularly from nonbank institutions.
Positive	Gross public issuance of equity by nonfinancial firms was solid over the same period.
Positive	Conditions in some segments of the commercial real estate (CRE) sector continued to improve in recent months.
Positive	Outstanding CRE loans held by commercial banks edged up in the past two quarters following a prolonged period of decline, and commercial mortgage-backed security issuance was strong in the first quarter.
Neutral	According to the Senior Loan Officer Opinion Survey on Bank Lending Practices (SLOOS) conducted in April, the fraction of banks that eased standards on CRE loans over the past three months increased to a relatively high level, while demand for these loans strengthened further.
Neutral	CRE prices continued to move up slowly, and price indexes for various market segments reached levels last seen in late 2008.
Neutral	Rates on conforming home mortgage loans declined over the intermeeting period, and the spread between the primary mortgage rate and MBS yields remained well below its peak during the second half of 2012.
Neutral	The estimated pace of mortgage refinancing originations continued to be high, supported by historically low mortgage rates.
Negative	However, purchase mortgage applications stayed at low levels.
Positive	Overall delinquencies trended lower for both prime and subprime mortgages, primarily reflecting the very tight underwriting standards imposed over the past several years.
Positive	Consumer credit continued to expand in January and February, mostly driven by sizable increases in nonrevolving credit.
Positive	Growth was particularly strong in auto loans as well as in student loans extended through the Department of Education's Direct Loan Program.
Negative	In contrast, total revolving credit was about flat amid continued tight underwriting standards and terms on credit card loans.
Positive	Issuance of consumer asset-backed securities--in particular, those backed by subprime auto loans--remained robust in recent months.
Positive	Total bank credit expanded moderately during the first quarter of 2013.
Neutral	Gains continued to be concentrated in commercial and industrial (C&I) loans, which increased especially strongly at domestic banks.
Neutral	In the April SLOOS, relatively large net fractions of these banks reported having eased standards and reduced spreads on C&I loans to firms of all sizes.
Neutral	M2 grew at a faster pace in March and April than earlier in the year, possibly boosted by the higher level of annual tax payments and refunds relative to recent years.
Neutral	Meanwhile, the monetary base expanded briskly over those two months, driven mainly by the increase in reserve balances resulting from the Federal Reserve's asset purchases.
Negative	Early in the intermeeting period, prices of a range of risky assets abroad fell in reaction to reports of the "bail-in" of depositors at banks in Cyprus and the imposition of an extended bank holiday in that country, but outside of Cyprus those movements generally proved temporary.
Neutral	Euro-area equity indexes, which fell as stresses in Cyprus intensified, ended the period up slightly.
Neutral	By contrast, stock prices in Japan rose sharply, as the Bank of Japan surprised investors with the scale of its new monetary policy program aimed at raising inflation to 2 percent.
Neutral	Yields on longer-term Japanese government bonds displayed considerable volatility in the days following the announcement, although they were little changed, on net, over the intermeeting period.
Negative	Outside of Japan, foreign benchmark sovereign yields fell over the intermeeting period, with market commentary citing weak U.S. and foreign macroeconomic data releases, increased expectations for further monetary accommodation by some foreign central banks, and the announcement by the Bank of Japan.
Negative	After appreciating, on balance, since early this year, the dollar depreciated against most currencies, although it continued to appreciate against the yen.
Neutral	Emerging market stock prices changed little, on net, and emerging market equity mutual funds experienced modest outflows.
Neutral	Staff Economic Outlook
Neutral	In the economic forecast prepared by the staff for the April 30-May 1 FOMC meeting, the projection for real GDP growth was little revised from that prepared for the March meeting.
Negative With fiscal policy expected to be tighter this year than last year, the staff still anticipated that the pace of expansion in real GDP would only somewhat exceed the growth rate of potential output in 2013.
Positive The staff also continued to project that real GDP would accelerate gradually in 2014 and 2015, supported by an eventual easing in the effects of fiscal policy restraint on economic growth, increases in consumer and business sentiment, further improvements in credit availability and financial conditions, and accommodative monetary policy.
Positive The expansion in economic activity was anticipated to slowly reduce the slack in labor and product markets over the projection period, and the unemployment rate was expected to decline gradually.
Neutral The staff's forecast for inflation was also little revised from the projection prepared for the March FOMC meeting.
Neutral With longer-run inflation expectations assumed to remain stable, energy prices expected to continue to trend down, and significant resource slack persisting over the forecast period, the staff continued to project that inflation would remain subdued through 2015.
Netural The staff viewed the uncertainty around its forecast for economic activity as similar to the average level over the past 20 years.
Positive However, the risks to this outlook were viewed as skewed to the downside, reflecting in part concerns about the situation in Europe.
Neutral Although the staff saw the outlook for inflation as uncertain, the risks were viewed as balanced and not unusually high.
Positive	Spending by consumers continued to expand, supported by better credit conditions, rising equity and housing prices, and lower energy prices; and the housing sector improved further.
Negative	With some exceptions, business contacts were reporting continued caution about expanding investment or payrolls.
