Negative	A joint meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee and the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System was held in the offices of the Board of Governors in Washington, D.C., on Tuesday, August 9, 2011, at 8:00 a.m.

PRESENT:

Ben Bernanke, Chairman
William C. Dudley, Vice Chairman
Elizabeth Duke
Charles L. Evans
Richard W. Fisher
Narayana Kocherlakota
Charles I. Plosser
Sarah Bloom Raskin
Daniel K. Tarullo
Janet L. Yellen

Christine Cumming, Jeffrey M. Lacker, Dennis P. Lockhart, Sandra Pianalto, and John C. Williams, Alternate Members of the Federal Open Market Committee

James Bullard, Thomas M. Hoenig, and Eric Rosengren, Presidents of the Federal Reserve Banks of St. Louis, Kansas City, and Boston, respectively

William B. English, Secretary and Economist
Matthew M. Luecke, Assistant Secretary
David W. Skidmore, Assistant Secretary
Michelle A. Smith, Assistant Secretary
Thomas C. Baxter, Deputy General Counsel
Richard M. Ashton, Assistant General Counsel

Thomas A. Connors, David Reifschneider, Daniel G. Sullivan, David W. Wilcox, and Kei-Mu Yi, Associate Economists

Brian Sack, Manager, System Open Market Account

Jennifer J. Johnson, Secretary of the Board, Office of the Secretary, Board of Governors

Patrick M. Parkinson, Director, Division of Banking Supervision and Regulation, Board of Governors

Robert deV.
Negative	Frierson, Deputy Secretary, Office of the Secretary, Board of Governors

Andreas Lehnert, Deputy Director, Office of Financial Stability Policy and Research, Board of Governors

Linda Robertson, Assistant to the Board, Office of Board Members, Board of Governors

Seth B. Carpenter, Senior Associate Director, Division of Monetary Affairs, Board of Governors; Michael Leahy, Senior Associate Director, Division of International Finance, Board of Governors; Lawrence Slifman and William Wascher, Senior Associate Directors, Division of Research and Statistics, Board of Governors

Andrew T. Levin, Senior Adviser, Office of Board Members, Board of Governors; Stephen A. Meyer, Senior Adviser, Division of Monetary Affairs, Board of Governors

Joyce K. Zickler, Visiting Senior Adviser, Division of Monetary Affairs, Board of Governors

David E. Lebow, Associate Director, Division of Research and Statistics, Board of Governors

Joshua Gallin, Deputy Associate Director, Division of Research and Statistics, Board of Governors; Fabio M. Natalucci, Deputy Associate Director, Division of Monetary Affairs, Board of Governors

Beth Anne Wilson, Assistant Director, Division of International Finance, Board of Governors

Penelope A. Beattie, Assistant to the Secretary, Office of the Secretary, Board of Governors

John C. Driscoll, Senior Economist, Division of Monetary Affairs, Board of Governors

Carol Low, Open Market Secretariat Specialist, Division of Monetary Affairs, Board of Governors

Randall A. Williams, Records Management Analyst, Division of Monetary Affairs, Board of Governors

David Sapenaro, First Vice President, Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis

Mark S. Sniderman, Executive Vice President, Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland

David Altig, Alan D. Barkema, and Geoffrey Tootell, Senior Vice Presidents, Federal Reserve Banks of Atlanta, Kansas City, and Boston, respectively

Chris Burke, Fred Furlong, Tom Klitgaard, Evan F. Koenig, and Daniel L. Thornton, Vice Presidents, Federal Reserve Banks of New York, San Francisco, New York, Dallas, and St. Louis, respectively

Keith Sill, Assistant Vice President, Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia

Robert L. Hetzel, Senior Economist, Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond

Developments in Financial Markets and the Federal Reserve's Balance Sheet
The Manager of the System Open Market Account (SOMA) reported on developments in domestic and foreign financial markets during the period since the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) met on June 21–22, 2011.
Negative	He also reported on System open market operations, including the continuing reinvestment into longer-term Treasury securities of principal payments received on the SOMA's holdings of agency debt and agency-guaranteed mortgage-backed securities.
Negative	By unanimous vote, the Committee ratified the transactions by the Open Market Desk of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York over the intermeeting period.
Negative	Staff Review of the Economic Situation
The information reviewed at the August 9 meeting indicated that the pace of the economic recovery remained slow in recent months and that labor market conditions continued to be weak.
Negative	In addition, revised data for 2008 through 2010 from the Bureau of Economic Analysis indicated that the recent recession was deeper than previously thought and that the level of real gross domestic product (GDP) had not yet attained its pre-recession peak by the second quarter of 2011.
Negative	Moreover, the downward revision to first-quarter GDP growth and the slow growth reported for the second quarter indicated that the recovery was quite sluggish in the first half of this year.
Negative	Overall consumer price inflation moderated in recent months, and survey measures of long-run inflation expectations remained stable.
Negative	Private nonfarm employment rose at a considerably slower pace in June and July than earlier in the year, and employment in state and local governments continued to trend lower.
Negative	The unemployment rate edged up, on net, since the beginning of the year, and long-duration unemployment remained very high.
Positive	Meanwhile, the labor force participation rate moved down further through July.
Negative	Initial claims for unemployment insurance stepped down some in recent weeks but remained elevated, and indicators of hiring showed no improvement.
Neutral	Manufacturing production was unchanged in June.
Negative	Supply chain disruptions associated with the earthquake in Japan continued to hinder production at motor vehicle manufacturers and the firms that supply them.
Negative	Excluding motor vehicles and parts, factory output posted only a modest increase.
Negative	The manufacturing capacity utilization rate held about flat in recent months.
Negative	With auto manufacturers expecting supply chain disruptions to ease, motor vehicle assembly schedules called for a substantial step-up in production in the third quarter, and initial estimates of production in June were consistent with such a step-up.
Negative	But broader indicators of near-term manufacturing activity, such as the diffusion indexes of new orders from the national and regional manufacturing surveys, softened to levels consistent with only small gains in production in the coming months.
Negative	Real consumer spending was nearly unchanged in the second quarter.
Negative	Motor vehicle purchases declined during the spring when the availability of some models was limited, but rebounded somewhat in July as supplies improved.
Negative	Consumer spending on goods and services other than motor vehicles also appeared soft through June.
Negative	Labor earnings rose in the second quarter, but increases in consumer prices offset much of the gain in nominal income.
Very negative	Consumer sentiment weakened markedly in July, and the Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan sentiment index fell to levels last seen in early 2009.
Negative	The housing market remained depressed.
Negative	Although single-family housing starts moved up some in June, permit issuance stayed low.
Negative	Similarly, sales of new and existing single-family homes were subdued in recent months, and home prices continued to trend lower.
Negative	New construction remained constrained by the overhang of foreclosed or distressed properties as well as by weak demand in an environment of uncertainty about future home prices and tight underwriting standards for mortgage loans.
Negative	Real business spending on equipment and software rose at a modest pace in the second quarter, reflecting strong increases in outlays for high-tech equipment that more than offset declines in spending in many other equipment categories.
Negative	Nominal new orders for nondefense capital goods excluding aircraft continued to rise through June, and orders remained well above shipments, suggesting further gains in outlays for equipment and software in the near term.
Neutral	However, indicators of business conditions and sentiment weakened in June and July.
Negative	Business investment in nonresidential structures appeared to have stabilized at a low level in recent months, with vacancy rates elevated and construction financing conditions still tight.
Negative	Outlays for drilling and mining equipment continued to increase.
Negative	In the second quarter, businesses appeared to add to inventories at a moderate rate, as a drawdown in motor vehicle inventories associated with production disruptions was offset by higher accumulation elsewhere.
Negative	In most industries outside of the motor vehicle sector, inventories seemed to be reasonably well aligned with sales.
Negative	Real federal purchases turned up in the second quarter, as defense expenditures rebounded after declining noticeably in the preceding quarter.
Very negative	At the state and local level, real purchases continued to decline in response to budgetary pressures; these governments continued to reduce payrolls, and their real construction outlays fell sharply.
Negative	The U.S. international trade deficit widened significantly in May in nominal terms, as exports edged down and imports moved up strongly.
Negative	Declines in exports were concentrated in commodity-intensive categories such as industrial supplies and agricultural goods; sales of capital goods and automotive products increased.
Negative	The rise in imports importantly reflected increases in spending on petroleum products (mainly the result of higher prices rather than increased volumes) and on capital goods, especially computers.
Negative	For the second quarter as a whole, the advance release of the National Income and Product Accounts (NIPA) indicated that real exports of goods and services increased more than real imports, with the result that net exports added significantly to real GDP growth.
Positive	After decelerating in the preceding two months, indexes of U.S. consumer prices declined in June, reflecting a substantial drop in consumer energy prices.
Neutral	However, survey data indicated some backup in gasoline prices in July.
Negative	The price index for personal consumption expenditures (PCE) excluding food and energy posted a small increase in June, and the PCE price index for non-energy services was essentially unchanged.
Negative	In contrast, prices of nonfood, non-energy goods were apparently boosted by upward pressure from earlier increases in commodity and import prices, and motor vehicle prices rose further, reflecting the extremely low levels of vehicle inventories.
Negative	Near-term expected inflation from the Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan Surveys of Consumers moved down again in July from its elevated level in the spring, and longer-term inflation expectations remained stable.
Negative	Nominal hourly labor compensation, as measured both by compensation per hour in the nonfarm business sector and by the employment cost index, increased at a moderate rate over the year ending in the second quarter.
Negative	Similarly, the 12-month change in average hourly earnings of all employees remained moderate in July.
Negative	Productivity in the nonfarm business sector rose only slightly over the past four-quarter period, so unit labor costs posted a modest increase.
Negative	Foreign economic growth appeared to have slowed significantly in recent months.
Negative	Real GDP growth declined sharply in the United Kingdom in the second quarter, and industrial production data and purchasing managers surveys pointed to a similar slowdown in Canada.
Negative	Retail sales and business sentiment for the euro area also weakened in recent months amid intensified concerns over the fiscal situation of the peripheral euro-area countries.
Negative	Economic performance in the emerging market economies was somewhat better, but indicators for those economies also suggested some cooling from the very rapid growth earlier this year.
Negative	By contrast, the Japanese economy has begun to recover from the March disaster, with exports and production both retracing much of their substantial losses.
Negative	Foreign inflation dipped in the second quarter as the effects of previous increases in food and energy prices began to dissipate.
Negative	Staff Review of the Financial Situation
Over the intermeeting period, U.S. financial markets were strongly influenced by developments regarding the fiscal situations in the United States and in Europe and by generally weaker-than-expected readings on economic activity.
Negative	Throughout the period, waxing and waning concerns about the sovereign debt of peripheral euro-area countries appeared to have an effect on investor appetite for risk, leading to volatility in many asset markets.
Negative	Late in the period, investor focus appeared to turn to the U.S. debt ceiling and the potential for delayed debt service payments by the Treasury Department, the possibility of a downgrade of U.S. sovereign debt, and the prospects for significant long-term fiscal consolidation.
Negative	Liquidity and funding in money markets deteriorated in the last week of July, and interest rates on a number of short-term funding instruments increased markedly.
Negative	The strains in these markets eased after legislation to raise the debt ceiling and to cut the federal budget deficit was signed into law on August 2.
Very negative	U.S. equity prices fell considerably in the last week of July and the first week of August, reportedly reflecting recent weaker-than-expected economic data releases, and they declined further after the August 5 announcement by Standard & Poor's of its downgrade of long-term U.S. sovereign debt.
Negative	The decisions by the FOMC at its June meeting to complete its asset purchase program and to maintain the 0 to 1/4 percent target range for the federal funds rate were about in line with market expectations and elicited little market reaction; the same was true of the accompanying statement and the subsequent press briefing by the Chairman.
Negative	Over the intermeeting period, investors marked down the expected path for the federal funds rate substantially, reflecting incoming economic data that were weaker than expected and concomitant concerns about the prospects for global growth.
Very negative	Yields on nominal Treasury securities also fell notably, on net, over the intermeeting period.
Negative	The Federal Reserve's Treasury purchase program was completed on schedule on June 30.
Very negative	Broad U.S. stock price indexes fell sharply, on net, over the intermeeting period, as increased concerns about economic growth appeared to overshadow generally strong second-quarter corporate earnings reports.
Negative	Option-implied volatility on the S&P 500 index jumped late in the period.
Negative	Yields on both investment- and speculative-grade corporate bonds fell a little less than those on comparable-maturity Treasury securities, leaving risk spreads wider.
Negative	Financial market indicators of inflation expectations were mixed over the intermeeting period.
Negative	Net debt financing by nonfinancial corporations was solid in July, although below the elevated pace posted in the second quarter.
Negative	Gross bond issuance fell, and the outstanding amount of commercial and industrial (C&I) loans on banks' books was about flat.
Negative	Nonfinancial commercial paper (CP) posted a sizable gain.
Negative	The market for CP issued by financial firms experienced some strains late in the period as institutional money market mutual funds reportedly increased their cash positions and sought to decrease exposure to CP issued by some entities perceived to be less creditworthy.
Negative	Issuance of syndicated leveraged loans remained strong in the second quarter.
Negative	The pace of gross public equity issuance by nonfinancial firms fell somewhat in July from its solid pace in the second quarter.
Negative	Most indicators of business credit quality continued to improve.
Negative	Commercial real estate markets remained weak.
Very negative	Available data for the second quarter indicated that commercial mortgage debt contracted, prices of commercial properties were generally depressed, and issuance of commercial mortgage-backed securities (CMBS) slowed.
Neutral	However, the delinquency rate in June for loans that back existing CMBS stayed below its recent peak, and vacancy rates for commercial properties, while still high, generally continued to edge lower.
Negative	Rates on conforming fixed-rate residential mortgages declined, on net, over the intermeeting period.
Negative	Mortgage refinancing activity picked up but remained relatively subdued.
Negative	Outstanding residential mortgage debt is estimated to have contracted further in the second quarter.
Negative	Rates of serious mortgage delinquency continued to moderate but remained high, while the rate of new delinquencies on prime mortgages flattened out in recent months at an elevated level.
Negative	Conditions in consumer credit markets generally continued to improve.
Positive	Total consumer credit expanded at a moderate rate in May as both nonrevolving and revolving credit posted gains.
Negative	Issuance of consumer asset-backed securities remained solid in July, although some deals later in the month were reportedly postponed a few days while issuers awaited the outcome of the debt ceiling deliberations.
Positive	Delinquency rates for most types of consumer loans moved down in recent months.
Negative	Core commercial bank loans--the sum of C&I, real estate, and consumer loans--were about flat over the months of June and July, as a slowdown in lending to businesses was offset by a pickup in loans to households.
Negative	The July Senior Loan Officer Opinion Survey on Bank Lending Practices showed that respondents again eased lending standards to some degree on all major loan types other than residential real estate loans.
Negative	Nonetheless, banks also indicated that the current levels of their lending standards for all loan types were between moderate and relatively tight when compared with the range of standards that had prevailed since 2005.
Negative	Nearly all second-quarter earnings reports from large banking companies exceeded expectations.
Negative	M2 expanded rapidly in June and July.
Very negative	Liquid deposits, the largest component of M2, increased robustly, likely reflecting safe-haven flows from riskier assets along with temporary increases in the amount of deposits that money market mutual funds held at their custodian banks.
Positive	The rise in currency moderated over those two months but remained robust.
Negative	Headline equity indexes abroad and foreign benchmark sovereign yields declined over the intermeeting period in apparent response to signs of a slowdown in the pace of global economic activity and reduced demand for risky assets.
Negative	At the same time, concerns about fiscal deficits and debt sustainability drove yields on the sovereign debt of Greece, Ireland, Portugal, Spain, and Italy to record highs relative to yields on German bunds, although later in the period, spreads fell back somewhat.
Very negative	Stock prices of European banks, which are significant investors in sovereign bonds issued by the peripheral euro-area countries, declined appreciably, and some of these banks reportedly faced tighter funding conditions toward the end of the intermeeting period.
Negative	The broad nominal index of the U.S. dollar fluctuated over the period in response to changes in investors' assessment of the outlook for the U.S. economy, prospects for the lifting of the U.S. debt ceiling, and the situation in the European economies.
Negative	On net over the intermeeting period, the dollar rose modestly after having depreciated earlier this year.
Positive	The European Central Bank (ECB) boosted its policy rate in July, a move that was widely anticipated.
Negative	As indicated by money market futures quotes, however, the expected pace of monetary policy tightening declined substantially for the ECB as well as for other central banks in advanced foreign economies.
Negative	Following its August meeting, the ECB expanded and extended its offerings of term liquidity and resumed purchases of sovereign debt in the secondary market.
Negative	Central banks in several emerging market economies, including China, continued to tighten policy in response to inflationary pressures.
Negative	Authorities in some emerging market economies also took measures to limit capital inflows and credit growth.
Negative	Staff Economic Outlook
The information on economic activity received since the June FOMC meeting was weaker than the staff had anticipated, and the projection for real GDP growth in the second half of 2011 and in 2012 was marked down notably.
Negative	Moreover, the lower estimates of real GDP in recent years that were contained in the annual revisions to the NIPA led the staff to lower its estimate of potential GDP growth, both during recent years and over the forecast period, and to mark down further the staff forecast.
Negative	The staff continued to expect some rebound in economic activity in the near term as the Japan-related supply chain disruptions in the motor vehicle sector eased.
Negative	More generally, the staff still projected real GDP to accelerate gradually over the next year and a half, supported by accommodative monetary policy, improved credit availability, and a pickup in consumer and business sentiment.
Neutral	However, the increase in real GDP was projected to be sufficient to reduce slack in the labor market only slowly, and the unemployment rate was expected to remain elevated at the end of 2012.
Negative	The staff raised slightly its projection for inflation during the second half of this year, as the upward pressure on consumer prices from earlier increases in import and commodity prices was expected to persist a little longer than previously anticipated.
Negative	But these influences were still expected to dissipate in coming quarters, as was the temporary upward pressure on motor vehicle prices from low inventories.
Negative	Moreover, the large increases in consumer energy and food prices seen earlier this year were not expected to be repeated.
Negative	With long-run inflation expectations stable and substantial slack expected to persist in labor and product markets, the staff continued to expect prices to rise at a subdued pace in 2012.
Negative	Participants' Views on Current Conditions and the Economic Outlook
In their discussion of the economic situation and outlook, meeting participants regarded the information received during the intermeeting period as indicating that economic growth so far this year was considerably slower than they had expected.
Negative	Participants noted a deterioration in labor market conditions, slower household spending, a drop in consumer and business confidence, and continued weakness in the housing sector.
Negative	Manufacturing activity was reported to be mixed.
Negative	Participants judged that temporary factors affecting demand and production, including the damping effect of higher energy and other commodity prices and the supply disruptions from the Japanese earthquake, could account for only some of the weakness in economic growth over the first half of the year.
Negative	While these effects appeared to be waning, the underlying strength of the economic recovery remained uncertain.
Negative	In addition, many participants pointed to the recent downward revision to estimates of economic activity over the past three years, and some to the financial market strains seen during the intermeeting period, as contributing to a downgrade of the outlook for the economy.
Negative	More-over, many participants saw increased downside risks to the outlook for economic growth.
Negative	Meeting participants generally noted that overall labor market conditions had deteriorated in recent months.
Negative	While the employment report for July showed that hiring was somewhat better than in previous months, the release was still seen as indicating relatively weak conditions.
Negative	A couple of participants commented that the exceptionally high level of long-term unemployment could lead to permanent negative effects on the skills and employment prospects of those affected.
Negative	Another participant, however, noted that it could instead reflect a mismatch between the characteristics of the unemployed and the jobs currently available.
Negative	Participants also discussed the labor force participation rate, and it was noted that extended unemployment benefits could be increasing the measured unemployment rate by encouraging some workers to remain in the labor force longer than they otherwise would have.
Negative	Other participants remarked that the declines in the unemployment rate that have occurred over the past year appeared to reflect primarily declines in labor force participation rather than significant gains in employment.
Negative	Reports from business contacts suggested that depressed business confidence as well as uncertainty regarding the economic outlook, regulatory policy, and fiscal policy continued to restrain hiring and also capital investment.
Negative	Inflation had moderated in recent months after having been somewhat elevated earlier this year.
Negative	Transitory factors, including supply chain disruptions from the earthquake in Japan and a surge in energy and other commodity prices, had pushed up both headline and core measures of inflation for a time.
Negative	More recently, however, as prices of energy and some commodities have declined from their earlier peaks, headline inflation has moderated.
Negative	Participants generally noted that, with apparently significant slack in labor and product markets, slow wage growth, and little evidence of pricing power among firms, inflation was likely to decline somewhat over time.
Negative	Measures of inflation expectations had remained stable.
Positive	Nevertheless, a number of participants noted that core inflation had moved up, on balance, since last fall.
Negative	Some indicated that the rise in inflation from very low levels reflected the Committee's accommodative stance of monetary policy, which had helped address the deflation risks of a year ago.
Negative	A couple of others, however, suggested that the juxtaposition of higher core inflation and somewhat lower unemployment could imply that the level of potential output was lower than had been thought.
Neutral	Most meeting participants indicated that the weakness in consumer spending in recent months was unexpected.
Neutral	The flattening out of consumer spending was seen as reflecting, in part, the modest pace of gains in employment and labor income.
Negative	In addition, household spending on autos had been held back by low inventories, and participants generally expected a pickup in sales of motor vehicles in coming months as production rebounded.
Negative	Nonetheless, low consumer confidence, efforts to rebuild balance sheets, and heightened caution on the part of households facing an uncertain economic environment were seen as factors likely to continue to weigh on household spending going forward.
Negative	Several participants also pointed to financial constraints, particularly depressed home prices and still-tight credit conditions, as further restraining consumer spending for a time.
Negative	Business outlays on equipment and software continued to advance, although at a slower pace than earlier in the year.
Negative	Business contacts in many parts of the country reported that uncertainty about the pace of growth in coming quarters and a general slump in business confidence had made some firms reluctant to expand capacity.
Negative	With home prices depressed, housing construction was quite subdued and seen as likely to remain so, while investment in nonresidential structures remained low.
Negative	The weakness in household and business spending was accompanied by fiscal consolidation at the state and local level.
Negative	The shedding of state and local government jobs contributed to the deterioration in overall labor market conditions.
Negative	Some policymakers noted that their outlooks for economic activity were shaped in part by an expectation of fiscal restraint at all levels of government.
Negative	Participants generally saw the degree of uncertainty surrounding the outlook for economic growth as having risen appreciably.
Negative	A couple noted that the cyclical impetus to economic expansion appeared to be weaker than it had been in past recoveries, but that the reasons for the weakness were unclear, contributing to greater uncertainty about the economic outlook.
Negative	Many participants also saw an increase in the downside risks to economic growth.
Negative	While participants did not anticipate a downturn in economic activity, several noted that, with the recovery still somewhat tentative, the economy was vulnerable to adverse shocks.
Negative	Potential shocks included the possibility of a more protracted period of weakness in household financial conditions, the chance of a larger-than-expected near-term fiscal tightening, and potential financial and economic spillovers if the situation in Europe were to deteriorate.
Negative	Participants noted that financial markets were volatile over the intermeeting period, as investors responded to news on the European fiscal situation and the negotiations regarding the debt ceiling in the United States.
Neutral	However, the broad declines in stock prices and interest rates over the intermeeting period were seen as mostly reflecting the incoming data pointing to a weaker outlook for growth both in the United States and globally as well as a reduced willingness of investors to bear risk in light of the greater uncertainty about the outlook.
Negative	While conditions in funding markets had tightened, it was noted that the condition of U.S. banks had strengthened in recent quarters and that the credit quality of both businesses and households had continued to improve.
Neutral	Participants discussed the range of policy tools available to promote a stronger economic recovery should the Committee judge that providing additional monetary accommodation was warranted.
Very negative	Reinforcing the Committee's forward guidance about the likely path of monetary policy was seen as a possible way to reduce interest rates and provide greater support to the economic expansion; a few participants emphasized that guidance focusing solely on the state of the economy would be preferable to guidance that named specific spans of time or calendar dates.
Negative	Some participants noted that additional asset purchases could be used to provide more accommodation by lowering longer-term interest rates.
Negative	Others suggested that increasing the average maturity of the System's portfolio--perhaps by selling securities with relatively short remaining maturities and purchasing securities with relatively long remaining maturities--could have a similar effect on longer-term interest rates.
Negative	Such an approach would not boost the size of the Federal Reserve's balance sheet and the quantity of reserve balances.
Negative	A few participants noted that a reduction in the interest rate paid on excess reserve balances could also be helpful in easing financial conditions.
Negative	In contrast, some participants judged that none of the tools available to the Committee would likely do much to promote a faster economic recovery, either because the headwinds that the economy faced would unwind only gradually and that process could not be accelerated with monetary policy or because recent events had significantly lowered the path of potential output.
Negative	Consequently, these participants thought that providing additional stimulus at this time would risk boosting inflation without providing a significant gain in output or employment.
Negative	Participants noted that devoting additional time to discussion of the possible costs and benefits of various potential tools would be useful, and they agreed that the September meeting should be extended to two days in order to provide more time.
Negative	Committee Policy Action
In the discussion of monetary policy for the period ahead, most members agreed that the economic outlook had deteriorated by enough to warrant a Committee response at this meeting.
Negative	While all felt that monetary policy could not completely address the various strains on the economy, most members thought that it could contribute importantly to better outcomes in terms of the Committee's dual mandate of maximum employment and price stability.
Negative	In particular, some members expressed the view that additional accommodation was warranted because they expected the unemployment rate to remain well above, and inflation to be at or below, levels consistent with the Committee's mandate.
Negative	Those viewing a shift toward more accommodative policy as appropriate generally agreed that a strengthening of the Committee's forward guidance regarding the federal funds rate, by being more explicit about the period over which the Committee expected the federal funds rate to remain exceptionally low, would be a measured response to the deterioration in the outlook over the intermeeting period.
Negative	A few members felt that recent economic developments justified a more substantial move at this meeting, but they were willing to accept the stronger forward guidance as a step in the direction of additional accommodation.
Neutral	Three members dissented because they preferred to retain the forward guidance language employed in the June statement.
Negative	The Committee agreed to keep the target range for the federal funds rate at 0 to 1/4 percent and to state that economic conditions are likely to warrant exceptionally low levels for the federal funds rate at least through mid-2013.
Positive	That anticipated path for the federal funds rate was viewed both as appropriate in light of most members' outlook for the economy and as generally consistent with some prescriptions for monetary policy based on historical and model-based analysis.
Negative	In choosing to phrase the outlook for policy in terms of a time horizon, members also considered conditioning the outlook for the level of the federal funds rate on explicit numerical values for the unemployment rate or the inflation rate.
Neutral	Some members argued that doing so would establish greater clarity regarding the Committee's intentions and its likely reaction to future economic developments, while others raised questions about how an appropriate numerical value might be chosen.
Negative	No such references were included in the statement for this meeting.
Negative	One member expressed concern that the use of a specific date in the forward guidance would be seen by the public as an unconditional commitment, and it could undermine Committee credibility if a change in timing subsequently became appropriate.
Negative	Most members, however, agreed that stating a conditional expectation for the level of the federal funds rate through mid-2013 provided useful guidance to the public, with some noting that such an indication did not remove the Committee's flexibility to adjust the policy rate earlier or later if economic conditions do not evolve as the Committee currently expects.
Negative	In the statement to be released following the meeting, members generally agreed that it was important to acknowledge that the recovery had been considerably slower than the Committee had expected.
Negative	Although some of the slowdown in the first half of the year reflected transitory factors, most members now judged that only part of that weakness could be attributed to those factors.
Negative	The Committee decided to note that the declines in energy and commodity prices from their recent peaks had led to a moderation of inflation and that longer-term inflation expectations remained stable.
Negative	The Committee also characterized the economic outlook in terms of its statutory mandate and indicated that it expected the slower pace of economic expansion to result in an unemployment rate that would decline only gradually toward levels consistent with its dual mandate and that it saw the downside risks to the economic outlook as having increased.
Neutral	Most members also anticipated that inflation would settle, over coming quarters, at levels at or below those consistent with the Committee's mandate.
Negative	The Committee noted that it had discussed the range of policy tools that were available to promote a stronger economic recovery in a context of price stability, and to indicate that those tools, including adjustments to the Committee's securities holdings, would be employed as appropriate.
Negative	At the conclusion of the discussion, the Committee voted to authorize and direct the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, until it was instructed otherwise, to execute transactions in the System Account in accordance with the following domestic policy directive:

    "The Federal Open Market Committee seeks monetary and financial conditions that will foster price stability and promote sustainable growth in output.
Negative	To further its long-run objectives, the Committee seeks conditions in reserve markets consistent with federal funds trading in a range from 0 to 1/4 percent.
Negative	The Committee also directs the Desk to maintain its existing policy of reinvesting principal payments on all domestic securities in the System Open Market Account in Treasury securities in order to maintain the total face value of domestic securities at approximately $2.6 trillion.
Negative	The System Open Market Account Manager and the Secretary will keep the Committee informed of ongoing developments regarding the System's balance sheet that could affect the attainment over time of the Committee's objectives of maximum employment and price stability."
Negative	The vote encompassed approval of the statement below to be released at 2:15 p.m.:

    "Information received since the Federal Open Market Committee met in June indicates that economic growth so far this year has been considerably slower than the Committee had expected.
Positive	Indicators suggest a deterioration in overall labor market conditions in recent months, and the unemployment rate has moved up.
Very negative	Household spending has flattened out, investment in nonresidential structures is still weak, and the housing sector remains depressed.
Neutral	However, business investment in equipment and software continues to expand.
Positive	Temporary factors, including the damping effect of higher food and energy prices on consumer purchasing power and spending as well as supply chain disruptions associated with the tragic events in Japan, appear to account for only some of the recent weakness in economic activity.
Positive	Inflation picked up earlier in the year, mainly reflecting higher prices for some commodities and imported goods, as well as the supply chain disruptions.
Negative	More recently, inflation has moderated as prices of energy and some commodities have declined from their earlier peaks.
Negative	Longer-term inflation expectations have remained stable.
Negative	Consistent with its statutory mandate, the Committee seeks to foster maximum employment and price stability.
Negative	The Committee now expects a somewhat slower pace of recovery over coming quarters than it did at the time of the previous meeting and anticipates that the unemployment rate will decline only gradually toward levels that the Committee judges to be consistent with its dual mandate.
Negative	Moreover, downside risks to the economic outlook have increased.
Negative	The Committee also anticipates that inflation will settle, over coming quarters, at levels at or below those consistent with the Committee's dual mandate as the effects of past energy and other commodity price increases dissipate further.
Neutral	However, the Committee will continue to pay close attention to the evolution of inflation and inflation expectations.
Negative	To promote the ongoing economic recovery and to help ensure that inflation, over time, is at levels consistent with its mandate, the Committee decided today to keep the target range for the federal funds rate at 0 to 1/4 percent.
Negative	The Committee currently anticipates that economic conditions--including low rates of resource utilization and a subdued outlook for inflation over the medium run--are likely to warrant exceptionally low levels for the federal funds rate at least through mid-2013.
Negative	The Committee also will maintain its existing policy of reinvesting principal payments from its securities holdings.
Negative	The Committee will regularly review the size and composition of its securities holdings and is prepared to adjust those holdings as appropriate.
Neutral	The Committee discussed the range of policy tools available to promote a stronger economic recovery in a context of price stability.
Positive	It will continue to assess the economic outlook in light of incoming information and is prepared to employ these tools as appropriate."
Very negative	Voting for this action: Ben Bernanke, William C. Dudley, Elizabeth Duke, Charles L. Evans, Sarah Bloom Raskin, Daniel K. Tarullo, and Janet L. Yellen.
Negative	Voting against this action: Richard W. Fisher, Narayana Kocherlakota, and Charles I. Plosser.
Negative	Messrs. Fisher, Kocherlakota, and Plosser dissented because they would have preferred to continue to describe economic conditions as likely to warrant exceptionally low levels for the federal funds rate for an "extended period," rather than characterizing that period as "at least through mid-2013."
Negative	Mr. Fisher discussed the fragility of the U.S. economy but felt that it was chiefly nonmonetary factors, such as uncertainty about fiscal and regulatory initiatives, that were restraining domestic capital expenditures, job creation, and economic growth.
Negative	He was concerned both that the Committee did not have enough information to be specific on the time interval over which it expected low rates to be maintained, and that, were it to do so, the Committee risked appearing overly responsive to the recent financial market volatility.
Negative	Mr. Kocherlakota's perspective on the policy decision was shaped by his view that in November 2010, the Committee had chosen a level of accommodation that was well calibrated for the condition of the economy.
Negative	Since November, inflation had risen and unemployment had fallen, and he did not believe that providing more monetary accommodation was the appropriate response to those changes in the economy.
Negative	Mr. Plosser felt that the reference to 2013 might well be misinterpreted as suggesting that monetary policy was no longer contingent on how the economic outlook evolved.
Negative	Although financial markets had been volatile and incoming information on growth and employment had been weaker than anticipated, he believed the statement conveyed an excessively negative assessment of the economy and that it was premature to undertake, or be perceived to signal, further policy accommodation.
Negative	He also judged that the policy step would do little to improve near-term growth prospects, given the ongoing structural adjustments and external challenges faced by the U.S. economy.
Negative	It was agreed that the next meeting of the Committee would be held on Tuesday–Wednesday, September 20–21, 2011.
Negative	The meeting adjourned at 1:40 p.m. on August 9, 2011.
Negative	Videoconference Meeting of August 1
On August 1, 2011, the Committee met by videoconference to discuss issues associated with contingencies in the event that the Treasury was temporarily unable to meet its obligations because the statutory federal debt limit was not raised or in the event of a downgrade of the U.S. sovereign credit rating.
Negative	The staff provided an update on the debt limit status, conditions in financial markets, plans that the Federal Reserve and the Treasury had developed regarding the processing of federal payments, potential implications for bank supervision and regulatory policies, and possible actions that the Federal Reserve could take if disruptions to market functioning posed a threat to the Federal Reserve's economic objectives.
Neutral	Participants generally anticipated that there would be no need to make changes to existing bank regulations, the operation of the discount window, or the conduct of open market operations.
Negative	A number of participants emphasized that the Federal Reserve would continue to employ market values of securities in its transactions.
Negative	With respect to potential policy actions, participants agreed that the appropriate response would depend importantly on the actual conditions in markets and should generally consist of standard operations.
Negative	Some participants noted that such an approach would maintain the traditional separation of the Federal Reserve's actions from the Treasury's debt management decisions.
Negative	Notation Vote
By notation vote completed on August 29, 2011, the Committee unanimously approved the minutes of the FOMC meeting held on August 9, 2011.
